{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg936\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe2052{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\ltrpar\cf0\lang2052\fs20 A. HISTORY OF THE SOFTWARE\par
==========================\par
\par
Python was created in the early 1990s by Guido van Rossum at Stichting\par
Mathematisch Centrum (CWI, see http://www.cwi.nl) in the Netherlands\par
as a successor of a language called ABC.  Guido remains Python's\par
principal author, although it includes many contributions from others.\par
\par
In 1995, Guido continued his work on Python at the Corporation for\par
National Research Initiatives (CNRI, see http://www.cnri.reston.va.us)\par
in Reston, Virginia where he released several versions of the\par
software.\par
\par
In May 2000, Guido and the Python core development team moved to\par
BeOpen.com to form the BeOpen PythonLabs team.  In October of the same\par
year, the PythonLabs team moved to Digital Creations, which became\par
Zope Corporation.  In 2001, the Python Software Foundation (PSF, see\par
https://www.python.org/psf/) was formed, a non-profit organization\par
created specifically to own Python-related Intellectual Property.\par
Zope Corporation was a sponsoring member of the PSF.\par
\par
All Python releases are Open Source (see http://www.opensource.org for\par
the Open Source Definition).  Historically, most, but not all, Python\par
releases have also been GPL-compatible; the table below summarizes\par
the various releases.\par
\par
    Release         Derived     Year        Owner       GPL-\par
                    from                                compatible? (1)\par
\par
    0.9.0 thru 1.2              1991-1995   CWI         yes\par
    1.3 thru 1.5.2  1.2         1995-1999   CNRI        yes\par
    1.6             1.5.2       2000        CNRI        no\par
    2.0             1.6         2000        BeOpen.com  no\par
    1.6.1           1.6         2001        CNRI        yes (2)\par
    2.1             2.0+1.6.1   2001        PSF         no\par
    2.0.1           2.0+1.6.1   2001        PSF         yes\par
    2.1.1           2.1+2.0.1   2001        PSF         yes\par
    2.1.2           2.1.1       2002        PSF         yes\par
    2.1.3           2.1.2       2002        PSF         yes\par
    2.2 and above   2.1.1       2001-now    PSF         yes\par
\par
Footnotes:\par
\par
(1) GPL-compatible doesn't mean that we're distributing Python under\par
    the GPL.  All Python licenses, unlike the GPL, let you distribute\par
    a modified version without making your changes open source.  The\par
    GPL-compatible licenses make it possible to combine Python with\par
    other software that is released under the GPL; the others don't.\par
\par
(2) According to Richard Stallman, 1.6.1 is not GPL-compatible,\par
    because its license has a choice of law clause.  According to\par
    CNRI, however, Stallman's lawyer has told CNRI's lawyer that 1.6.1\par
    is "not incompatible" with the GPL.\par
\par
Thanks to the many outside volunteers who have worked under Guido's\par
direction to make these releases possible.\par
\par
\par
B. TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ACCESSING OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON\par
===============================================================\par
\par
PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION LICENSE VERSION 2\par
--------------------------------------------\par
\par
1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the Python Software Foundation\par
("PSF"), and the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and\par
otherwise using this software ("Python") in source or binary form and\par
its associated documentation.\par
\par
2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, PSF hereby\par
grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide license to reproduce,\par
analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly, prepare derivative works,\par
distribute, and otherwise use Python alone or in any derivative version,\par
provided, however, that PSF's License Agreement and PSF's notice of copyright,\par
i.e., "Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010,\par
2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 Python Software Foundation;\par
All Rights Reserved" are retained in Python alone or in any derivative version\par
prepared by Licensee.\par
\par
3. In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on\par
or incorporates Python or any part thereof, and wants to make\par
the derivative work available to others as provided herein, then\par
Licensee hereby agrees to include in any such work a brief summary of\par
the changes made to Python.\par
\par
4. PSF is making Python available to Licensee on an "AS IS"\par
basis.  PSF MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED.  BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, PSF MAKES NO AND\par
DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS\par
FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF PYTHON WILL NOT\par
INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.\par
\par
5. PSF SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF PYTHON\par
FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS\par
A RESULT OF MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON,\par
OR ANY DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.\par
\par
6. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material\par
breach of its terms and conditions.\par
\par
7. Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any\par
relationship of agency, partnership, or joint venture between PSF and\par
Licensee.  This License Agreement does not grant permission to use PSF\par
trademarks or trade name in a trademark sense to endorse or promote\par
products or services of Licensee, or any third party.\par
\par
8. By copying, installing or otherwise using Python, Licensee\par
agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this License\par
Agreement.\par
\par
\par
BEOPEN.COM LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 2.0\par
-------------------------------------------\par
\par
BEOPEN PYTHON OPEN SOURCE LICENSE AGREEMENT VERSION 1\par
\par
1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between BeOpen.com ("BeOpen"), having an\par
office at 160 Saratoga Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 95051, and the\par
Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and otherwise using\par
this software in source or binary form and its associated\par
documentation ("the Software").\par
\par
2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this BeOpen Python License\par
Agreement, BeOpen hereby grants Licensee a non-exclusive,\par
royalty-free, world-wide license to reproduce, analyze, test, perform\par
and/or display publicly, prepare derivative works, distribute, and\par
otherwise use the Software alone or in any derivative version,\par
provided, however, that the BeOpen Python License is retained in the\par
Software, alone or in any derivative version prepared by Licensee.\par
\par
3. BeOpen is making the Software available to Licensee on an "AS IS"\par
basis.  BEOPEN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED.  BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, BEOPEN MAKES NO AND\par
DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS\par
FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE WILL NOT\par
INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.\par
\par
4. BEOPEN SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF THE\par
SOFTWARE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS\par
AS A RESULT OF USING, MODIFYING OR DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE, OR ANY\par
DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.\par
\par
5. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material\par
breach of its terms and conditions.\par
\par
6. This License Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in all\par
respects by the law of the State of California, excluding conflict of\par
law provisions.  Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to\par
create any relationship of agency, partnership, or joint venture\par
between BeOpen and Licensee.  This License Agreement does not grant\par
permission to use BeOpen trademarks or trade names in a trademark\par
sense to endorse or promote products or services of Licensee, or any\par
third party.  As an exception, the "BeOpen Python" logos available at\par
http://www.pythonlabs.com/logos.html may be used according to the\par
permissions granted on that web page.\par
\par
7. By copying, installing or otherwise using the software, Licensee\par
agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this License\par
Agreement.\par
\par
\par
CNRI LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 1.6.1\par
---------------------------------------\par
\par
1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the Corporation for National\par
Research Initiatives, having an office at 1895 Preston White Drive,\par
Reston, VA 20191 ("CNRI"), and the Individual or Organization\par
("Licensee") accessing and otherwise using Python 1.6.1 software in\par
source or binary form and its associated documentation.\par
\par
2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, CNRI\par
hereby grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide\par
license to reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly,\par
prepare derivative works, distribute, and otherwise use Python 1.6.1\par
alone or in any derivative version, provided, however, that CNRI's\par
License Agreement and CNRI's notice of copyright, i.e., "Copyright (c)\par
1995-2001 Corporation for National Research Initiatives; All Rights\par
Reserved" are retained in Python 1.6.1 alone or in any derivative\par
version prepared by Licensee.  Alternately, in lieu of CNRI's License\par
Agreement, Licensee may substitute the following text (omitting the\par
quotes): "Python 1.6.1 is made available subject to the terms and\par
conditions in CNRI's License Agreement.  This Agreement together with\par
Python 1.6.1 may be located on the Internet using the following\par
unique, persistent identifier (known as a handle): 1895.22/1013.  This\par
Agreement may also be obtained from a proxy server on the Internet\par
using the following URL: http://hdl.handle.net/1895.22/1013".\par
\par
3. In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on\par
or incorporates Python 1.6.1 or any part thereof, and wants to make\par
the derivative work available to others as provided herein, then\par
Licensee hereby agrees to include in any such work a brief summary of\par
the changes made to Python 1.6.1.\par
\par
4. CNRI is making Python 1.6.1 available to Licensee on an "AS IS"\par
basis.  CNRI MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED.  BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, CNRI MAKES NO AND\par
DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS\par
FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF PYTHON 1.6.1 WILL NOT\par
INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.\par
\par
5. CNRI SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF PYTHON\par
1.6.1 FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS\par
A RESULT OF MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON 1.6.1,\par
OR ANY DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.\par
\par
6. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material\par
breach of its terms and conditions.\par
\par
7. This License Agreement shall be governed by the federal\par
intellectual property law of the United States, including without\par
limitation the federal copyright law, and, to the extent such\par
U.S. federal law does not apply, by the law of the Commonwealth of\par
Virginia, excluding Virginia's conflict of law provisions.\par
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with regard to derivative works based\par
on Python 1.6.1 that incorporate non-separable material that was\par
previously distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL), the\par
law of the Commonwealth of Virginia shall govern this License\par
Agreement only as to issues arising under or with respect to\par
Paragraphs 4, 5, and 7 of this License Agreement.  Nothing in this\par
License Agreement shall be deemed to create any relationship of\par
agency, partnership, or joint venture between CNRI and Licensee.  This\par
License Agreement does not grant permission to use CNRI trademarks or\par
trade name in a trademark sense to endorse or promote products or\par
services of Licensee, or any third party.\par
\par
8. By clicking on the "ACCEPT" button where indicated, or by copying,\par
installing or otherwise using Python 1.6.1, Licensee agrees to be\par
bound by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.\par
\par
        ACCEPT\par
\par
\par
CWI LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 0.9.0 THROUGH 1.2\par
--------------------------------------------------\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1991 - 1995, Stichting Mathematisch Centrum Amsterdam,\par
The Netherlands.  All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its\par
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,\par
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that\par
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in\par
supporting documentation, and that the name of Stichting Mathematisch\par
Centrum or CWI not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to\par
distribution of the software without specific, written prior\par
permission.\par
\par
STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO\par
THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND\par
FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES\par
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN\par
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT\par
OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
From PyTorch:\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2016-     Facebook, Inc            (Adam Paszke)\par
Copyright (c) 2014-     Facebook, Inc            (Soumith Chintala)\par
Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Idiap Research Institute (Ronan Collobert)\par
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Deepmind Technologies    (Koray Kavukcuoglu)\par
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 NEC Laboratories America (Koray Kavukcuoglu)\par
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 NYU                      (Clement Farabet)\par
Copyright (c) 2006-2010 NEC Laboratories America (Ronan Collobert, Leon Bottou, Iain Melvin, Jason Weston)\par
Copyright (c) 2006      Idiap Research Institute (Samy Bengio)\par
Copyright (c) 2001-2004 Idiap Research Institute (Ronan Collobert, Samy Bengio, Johnny Mariethoz)\par
\par
From Caffe2:\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2016-present, Facebook Inc. All rights reserved.\par
\par
All contributions by Facebook:\par
Copyright (c) 2016 Facebook Inc.\par
\par
All contributions by Google:\par
Copyright (c) 2015 Google Inc.\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
All contributions by Yangqing Jia:\par
Copyright (c) 2015 Yangqing Jia\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
All contributions by Kakao Brain:\par
Copyright 2019-2020 Kakao Brain\par
\par
All contributions by Cruise LLC:\par
Copyright (c) 2022 Cruise LLC.\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
All contributions from Caffe:\par
Copyright(c) 2013, 2014, 2015, the respective contributors\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
All other contributions:\par
Copyright(c) 2015, 2016 the respective contributors\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Caffe2 uses a copyright model similar to Caffe: each contributor holds\par
copyright over their contributions to Caffe2. The project versioning records\par
all such contribution and copyright details. If a contributor wants to further\par
mark their specific copyright on a particular contribution, they should\par
indicate their copyright solely in the commit message of the change when it is\par
committed.\par
\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. Neither the names of Facebook, Deepmind Technologies, NYU, NEC Laboratories America\par
   and IDIAP Research Institute nor the names of its contributors may be\par
   used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without\par
   specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"\par
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE\par
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF\par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS\par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN\par
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE\par
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
}
 